layout: post
title: "Day 2 - Module 2"
---

### What I Set Out to Do
I was aiming to complete the entirety of the second course module. The focus of this second section was to introduce the concept of data visualization.

---

### What I Actually Did

I learned about different types of visual data and exploratory data analysis.
Summary of the 6 lessons in Module 2:

1. What is exploratory data analysis (EDA)? Exploratory data analysis is looking at the data to see what it is. This involves data cleaning, looking at data types, using descriptive statistics and using data visualization.

2. Descriptive statistics. Descriptive statistics look at median, mean, mode, standard deviation, range, and in general any points of numericaly analysing data.

3. Grouping data in python. In python you can use the code: g = df.groupby("Subject") END CODE. The g here represents grouping, df is data frames, Subject is just an example of a value to group the entire data set by. Going by the value we just gave g: g.describe() gives information about the data. g.agg("") aggregates (brings together) the data based on input value.

4. This lesson describes what histograms are. Histograms are a visual data set, like bar-graphs. The two types explored were Frequency Histograms and Density Histograms. Frequency Histograms show how often different values in a data set occur, with width of each block being the size of interval, and height being the number of observations. Density histograms depict percentages, conveyed through area covered, width is the size of the intervals, height shows density. The total area of blocks in density histograms will always sum to be 1.00 (100%).

5. Box plots are another form of data visualization. Box plots go by 3 quartiles: Q1 (25th percentile), Q2 (50th percentile/median), and Q3 (75th percentile). The IQR is the inner quartile range, IQR = Q3 - Q1, showung box width. IQR is used to calculate outliers. Low outliers are data points smaller than expected, found if the number is <Q1 - 1.5*(IQR). High outliers show data higher than expected, found when the data point is > Q3 + 1.5*(IQR). Outliers are plotted by dots. "Whiskers" are added to the box on the sides (thus the name). The lower whisker goes to the highest value that's not an outlier (on the left side of the box), and the highest outlier goes to the lowest non-outlier (on the right side).  

6. Basic data visualization in python. You can create basic data visualizations by writing: "df.plot.pie". (Ignore quotation marks when coding, just for representation). pie can be replaced with different forms of visualization. Some examples: pie, bar, hist, line, and scatter.
---

### What I Learned or Noticed

My take away from this week is that data visualization is a simple way to see data points in theory, but in practice, it takes a lot of work without the right tools. For example, it would take a long time to make a graph by hand, but a considerably shorter time to just use python. So use python. Overall, this module could've been sent in an email; it wasn't very informative, and the information needed was found in between fluff (like my history final rn <33).

### What's Next

Module 3 done by the end of tomorrow.
